- Joined by Mathias Doenitz, lead developer of Spray, living in southwest Germany.
- Loves the challenge and learning opportunities that Scala presents. No more daily grind!
- Spray is a collection of libraries for working with TCP/IP and HTTP.
It's pure Scala + Akka all the way down to the bare Sockets.
It is fully asynchronous.
- Why not use servlets?
  - Spray can be used on servlets if you choose, but most people want to do away with the overhead of servlets and their XML configuration.
  - Servlets are server-side only, without a corresponding client library.
  - The servlet API's age really shows its age in that it
    - Uses mutability.
    - Lacks modern function Scala niceness like case classes and typeclasses.
    - Lacks streaming + chunked message support.
    - Conceals connection management.
    - Conceals thread pool management.
    - Makes it difficult to monitor/trace your application.
- Why not use Netty?
It's great software, but still not Scala *all the way down*.
It's helpful to have the same stack (Scala, Akka, Typesafe Config, Typesafe Console, etc) all the way through, without adapter layers.
The Spray primitives are the Akka, Config, etc. primitives.
- Spray is nicely layered. If you need to go lower level, you can always go lower level.
There are no black boxes until you reach Java NIO.
- Other Scala web frameworks may be elephants all the way down, but they're not *Scala elephants* all the way down.
- Core principles of Spray:
  - Non-blocking and asynchronous code whenever possible.
  - Actor and future-based design.
  - Highly optimized for high-load environments (think 100,000 open connections).
  - Lightweight, with very few dependencies.
